All right.
So we have been having a ton of fun with view router, but unfortunately one thing that we have neglected
is to check our test suite.
After all, we have been adding a lot of code.
We added view router, we added our router link and router view components and we haven't seen whether
that made an impact on our tests.
So let's head to our terminal and run our full test suite.
So I'm going to run NPM, run test colon.
Watch.
I'm going to run the tests in watch mode.
And I am keeping a git commit for every lesson that I make.
So I am getting this message that says no tests have been found.
This is simply just saying that it doesn't see any changes since my last get commit.
If you ever get this message and just you can follow the instructions here and press the a key on your
keyboard and that will force just to run all tests.
So I'm going to press a and that is going to run all of our tests.
And you can see here we are going to get quite a few warnings, not failures, but warnings.
And if I scroll up, there are quite a few of them here.
We can see that they are coming from our May now dot test dot jazz file.
And let's read the statement to see what Vue is trying to tell us.
It says Failed to resolve component router link and if I scroll down, it's actually the exact same
warning for every test.
So what is going on here?
It's actually the exact same issue we saw earlier in the course when we used our font.
Awesome icon component router link is an example of a global component.
It is available to be used in any component in our view app.
But when it comes to our test suite, our test suite is running a component in isolation.
So in the case of the main NAV test file, it is mounting a main nav component without knowing any of
the other details of review app.
So the test does not know that we have configured Vue router and thus the test does not know what a
router link component right here is.
So it says I don't know what this is supposed to be.
So it's raising this warning because that can be problematic because it's not actually rendering the
real router link component in the test.
So let's go ahead and open up our main nav dot test that just filed.
And I do want to remind you that the tests here are using shallow mount.
And what that means is that the test utils library is stubbing out or replacing any child component
with its own custom implementation.
So when it is mounting our main NAV, it is still stubbing out router link with its own component or
its own implementation, its own replacement.
But that doesn't change the fact that the test doesn't know what router link is.
It doesn't know what that name is, it doesn't know where it's coming from, and that's why it's raising
this issue.
So what we can do is try to be a little bit more explicit and tell our test suite that it should stub
out router link whenever it sees it.
You may recall this when we did this for the font awesome icon component, right?
What we can do is we can provide that configuration object as the second argument to our mount or shallow
mount function and configure which of our child components we want to stub out some or all of them.
So as a reminder of what that syntax looks like, if I go into this function right here or this first
test, it displays our company name here.
We're just testing that.
We have the string bobble careers somewhere in our text and our component text.
And of course where bobble careers appears is right here as the link text within our router link component.
So if I go here and I provide my configuration object as a reminder, we provide a global property here
that is set to an object.
In that object we provide a stubs property and in that property we also assign an object.
And in this object our properties represent the child components and then our values previously were
true.
So we would do something like this when we did this for fun.
Awesome.
We said we have a component called Router Link as a child component in May now and we want to stub it
out.
So we're going to do this.
So let's see what happens when we run this.
We're actually going to get something even worse than a warning.
We're going to get a test failure.
And let me scroll down to see if we can find that failure.
And it is coming from right here.
We can see it is the exact same test we are currently on.
It displays company name and it is not finding these substring bubble careers in this string right here.
So what mean?
What that means is it's for some reason not finding this text that is in the router link stub component
that it is placed wherever it sees a router link.
So why is it not finding the text?
Well, let's let's talk a little bit about this.
I understand it can be a little bit complicated.
So as a reminder of what stubs do is they replace or substitute a child component with something else.
So whenever they view test utils, sees a router link, it can replace it with something else.
So for the sake of a comparison or just to give you a simple example, imagine that it replaces every
router linked with a div, right?
I'm not saying that's what it actually does, but think of it as as being something very akin to that.
It replaces our actual component with a much lighter, lightweight element so that the test can run
without having to worry about the internal implementation.
Details of how Router Link does its magic.
The problem is when we have something like this that renders text, the router link component knows
that it needs to render that text to the screen as the text that the user's going to click on when they
want to navigate.
But in our tests, if we can imagine replacing this whole thing with something like I did, imagine
that our test is doing something like this internally, right?
It doesn't know to preserve the logic of the texts, text inside it and know that it should be displayed.
It just literally replaces this with something else.
And that's because we are replacing the router link with something else that something else doesn't
have any internal text with the text bubble careers and thus it's not appearing in the components text
method and thus it is failing.
So how can we solve this problem?
Well, we can try to go for a full mount and we can try to fully render the router link component.
But because this is a common problem, the view test utils library actually gives us a really cool solution
and that is a specific designated router link stub component that is intended to serve as a perfect
replacement for a real life router link component from Vue router.
Let me first write the syntax out and then I'll show you a little bit more about how it works.
So what we're going to do right here is in addition to importing shallow mount, I want to import another
thing called the router link stub.
The way you can think about this is router link.
Stub is basically a view component, but a very lightweight version of the real world router link.
It's almost like a really small mini version of it that we can use as a replacement so that we are replacing
router link with something, but it's not the default view test utils replacement.
It is a specific, smaller, lightweight router linked stub component that can more effectively play
the role of a router link and support for example, all of its props and all of its functionality like
the rendering of the text that is inside it.
So it's a more specific replacement that isn't the real thing, but it is less generic than the default
stub that you test utils replace here if we simply provide a boolean value of true.
Right.
So what we can do as an alternate syntax here is instead of providing a boolean of true to tell you
test utils to step out router link, we can provide the actual replacement that we would like Vue to
use whenever it encounters a router link.
So you can almost think of it exactly like a find and replace operation in a word program.
Every time Vue sees router link, we're going to replace it with something else, but instead of replacing
it with the default, whatever element that view test utils does here, we're going to specify that
we want to replace it with this other component called router link stub.
All right.
So what I'd like to do at this point is to navigate to my browser.
And here I have the app.
And what I have opened right here in a second tab is the official view test utils repository on GitHub
and this is the actual file where they implement implement the router link stub component and as I scroll
down.
You can take a look at this code.
You can see it looks exactly like the configuration object for a view component.
And that's because it is fundamentally a view component.
It is not the real world router link.
But what it's going to try to do is emulate the interface and the functionality of router link so that
we can use it in a test, just like a router link, but without actually bundling all of that navigation
functionality and that complexity that comes with Vue router.
So for example, we know that our router link component has a two prop, but whenever we stub it out
in our test, the thing that you test utils stubs it out with is not guaranteed to have a two prop in
comparison.
If we start out with the router link stub.
We can see that this smaller or more lightweight vue component has an established to prop and it also
supports all of the other possible props at the real world router link component also supports.
So what they did is they sort of made this thing that behaves again, almost like the real world thing,
just like a stuntman in a movie, but it's much more lightweight.
It doesn't actually navigate the user around, but it can play the role of that real world router link
because it supports all of the same props.
Right.
And that's the beauty of this rolling stub is, again, a smaller, more lightweight replacement for
the real thing.
Right.
So when we do this, when we add this rattling stub to replace our router links, we are going to be
able to still see the text right here because it does support rendering this child text and the component
that test will no longer fail.
It's actually going to pass.
So as I scroll up, we still have the same warnings for failed to resolve component, but they're no
longer failures.
We do not have that failure from this test.
This test is passing.
So of course, the next thing that I'd like to do is to copy and paste the code we just added to every
single file in our test suite.
And this is a little bit verbose and duplicated and copy and paste.
But we will look at ways that we can reduce this duplication in the next lesson.
For now, let's just saw that the easiest way we can.
So I'm going to copy this configuration object, my second argument to my shallow amount function,
and I'm going to go to every single test in our test suite and just paste that object right here for
this test again.
Second argument, we provide a global property, a stubs property.
We tell it to stub out or replace root or link with this complementary component that is a more lightweight
version.
Let's repeat that exact same logic everywhere where we are shallow mounting a may now.
So I'm just copying and pasting right here and right here.
Let's see if there's anywhere else.
Looks like one more situation.
I'm going to save that.
Let's pretend to.
It's magic and let's let everything run.
And we can see our tests are fully passing and there are no more warnings.
So we have told the test utils not to worry about router link, which is a global component because
we have told it.
What it's supposed to represent is a router link stub.
Treat those two as if they're equal.
Don't worry about the fact that it's global.
Every time you see a router link, just replace it with router link stub and the new test utils knows
what that is.
So it's no longer has to resolve where Rodriguez coming from because what it's effectively doing is
replacing this component with the stub version every time and it does know where the router link stub
is coming from and that's how we are able to circumvent that issue.
All right.
So this will get rid of all of our warnings and luckily our tests are still passing, which is a good
sign that we are testing the right thing because we're still testing the rendering of the right text
and the right menu items.
This was just an expected warning that popped up because we added this brand new functionality and started
to add some new components in, but it's not a failure.
So I think that's a good sign that our test suite is resilient and when it comes to new changes being
added to our actual implementation.
But as I mentioned, we do have a lot of duplication and over the course of the next two lessons, we're
going to see a couple of options that we can utilize to reduce this duplication.
So I will see you in the next lesson.